# Create a User Interface with Vanilla Javascript and DOM

First, we created a ```<body>``` tag to contain our HTML.

Inside the ```<body>``` tag we created a ```<div>``` with an id of "root".

The "root" element will be used to render all our HTML code generated by the Javascript script.

Below, we create a ```<script>``` tag with the type of ```text/javascript``` to indicate that we are working with Javascript.

Inside the ```<script>``` tag we get the "root" element from the HTML by referencing it with the line ```document.getElementById('root')```, which will search the HTML in which the script is included or referenced to and look for a tag with the id of "root". Since id's are unique, only one element will be returned. Then, we store this DOM Node inside a variable called ```rootElement```.

Next, we use the line ```document.createElement('div')``` to create a new ```<div>``` element in the document. Since this element has not been appended to any other element in the page, it is not visible in the Interface nor the console. Then we store this ```<div>``` into a variable of the name ```element```.

Now our ```rootElement``` contains a DOM Node that already exists in the page, which is the ```<div id="root">```, and our ```element``` contains a newly created HTML element.

```element.textContent = 'Hello World'``` takes the DOM Node stored inside the ```element``` variable and sets its ```textContent``` property to 'Hello World'.

```element.className = 'container'``` is quite the same, but it takes the ```className``` property and sets it to 'container'.

Now our element should look like this when console logged:
```<div class="container">Hello World</div>```.

We then append the element variable to out ```rootElement```.
This is the part that the DOM Node stored inside the ```element``` variable becomes visible in the page and the console, showing 'Hello World' to the user.